# Good Practices & Style

> "Debugging is twice as hard as writing the code in the first place. Therefore, if you write the code as cleverly as possible, you are, by definition, not smart enough to debug it." —Brian W. Kernighan

Code style is not just about opinionated aesthetics. It is about reducing complexity, improving maintainability, and consequently eliminating the *potential* for bugs. Thousand-page books have been written on this subject, but here are some tips that will keep many bugs away.

* Functions are fun
  * Use *small* functions. Try imposing an arbitrary limit (10 lines is plenty).
  * Prefer *pure* functions. Pure functions neither rely on nor influence the surrounding scope. They take in inputs and return outputs — nothing more. That makes them easy to reason about (stateless).
  * Prefer *single-purpose* functions. If your function does two things, maybe it should be two functions.
  * Prefer *deterministic* functions. Indeterminism is hard to test, reproduce, check, and reason about.
* KISS (Keep It Simple, Stupid)
  * Remember [Rob Pike's 5 Rules of Programming](http://users.ece.utexas.edu/~adnan/pike.html)
  * Readability > smallness
  * Simple > clever
* Formatting matters!
  * Conciseness comes from economy of logic, not economy of lines
  * Whitespace improves clarity
  * Lines rarely need to be very long; set a 100 column ruler in your editor as a guide
  * Use clear variable names; `flavor` > `flvr` >>> `f`
  * Avoid ambiguous / similar variables; [`current` and `total`] >>> [`numi` and `numt`]
  * Indent your code properly / consistently. Indentation reveals structure.
* State is icky.
  * The biggest mental tax on a programmer is keeping track of state
  * It is very hard to keep state in sync across an application
  * Reduce and remove state whenever it won't result in a big increase in complexity
  * Prefer `const` to `let`. Prefer `let` to `var`. Put variables in the smallest scope possible.
* Don't copy-paste from others
  * Make sure you understand exactly what a code snippet does before using it
  * You never know when online text will include weird formatting characters, like the invisible [zero-width space](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zero-width_space)
* Do copy-paste from yourself
  * If you wrote something useful, put it in a gist, reuse it in other projects
  * Another upside to small single-purpose pure deterministic functions!
* Know thyself
  * Keep track of your own mistakes, and learn from them
